#### November 8, 2017

# Forever Student

So over the past couple of months, I've spent a fair amount of time learning **things**. New-to-me languages, re-visting my attacker stomping ground or 
"roots" (methodologies and toolsets), as well as new defenses mechanisms being considered for web standards. Outside of technology, I've tackled new physical challenges both in the gym, diet, and learning a new form of martial arts. 
*...and no, I'm not going to say the name because I can't stand the "crossfit" or "paleo diet" effect - you know - that time someone did it and then it became their whole identity?* Newp

I think it is important to stay a "forever student" for several reasons:

## Keeps your ego in check.

Pretty humbling to get thrown around by someone half your size or, see that someone with far less experience has developed a smarter/better/newer way of doing something than you. Guess what? Those things are going to happen.
Accept it, embrace it, and learn from this. One thing that I emphasize very heavily, to myself, is that I am an empty vessel waiting to soak in knowledge. There is no ego to offend, there is no opinion, all you have to do is absorb, ask questions, and apply.


## You can learn and teach, better

Anyone who has been doing something professionally for a decade or more, can easily find it difficult to remember back to what it was like to be a beginner. Which, makes it difficult to train a new wave of beginners.
But, because of experience, its often these same people who are asked to train the begginners. So, I may not remember much about what it was like when I first cracked ["The Web Application Hacker's Handbook"](http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470170778.html) but
I know some important fundamentals like:

* keep instructions succinct
* focus on either one skill or a small group of skills per session and repeat that/those into the ground 
* explain "the why" 
* Stop and repeatedly encourage questions to be asked

I could probably build a huge list of things here but the point is, being a student helps you be a better teacher. 

## 
